Let's take a practical example.
If I haven't convinced you by now that
this is important, let's talk numbers,
engineers like numbers.
So Nathan Curtis is a very prominent
person within the design systems field.
He has an excellent combination
of blogs over on Medium.
And he wrote a post called you
thought buttons were easy.
So I wanna share some of
the sentiments with you today.
We all know what a button is.
It seems really easy to build,
probably the simplest, but
we have to worry about padding, margin,
border radius, background color,
font size, font family,
color, all these things.
Right, and that's a lot, and buttons are
one of the most frequently used components
throughout your user interfaces.
But we're not just done once we examine
background color and padding and
all those things, we have to worry
about different states of the button.
So we have to worry about hover,
focus, active, disabled states.
And typically you're not just gonna
have one button in your user interface.
You're gonna have multiple.
So we need a secondary and
tertiary button for all of those states.
And of course icon buttons.
You're gonna have buttons with just icons,
which aren't great for accessibility,
we'll talk about that, and
you might have buttons with a label.
We are gonna have primary, secondary,
and tertiary buttons with an icon, so
that's a lot And we have different
sizes for different resolutions.
So we're gonna have small buttons and
big buttons and
then maybe status buttons, right?
If you're gonna ask a user to
delete their account, maybe,
you might wanna use an error or
a warning button.
That's a lot, so if we add up all
these different buttons, that's
about 14 different button combinations,
approximately, if my math is correct.
And if we have five different states,
like hover, focus, disabled,
and two different sizes, that's about
140 button combinations per theme.
This is just for one theme.
Imagine if we had three themes like
high contrast mode or dark theme.